#summary Changelog to MPlayerCE
#labels Featured

= Changelog to MPlayerCE =

== 0.71 ==

 * Improved memory management, due to MPlayer hanging if out of memory. Also new feature added if you press 1 twice it will show mem 1 and mem 2 info.
 * Driver improved with autodetection error, on error the device is reinitied and read is retried, meaning it is very hard to hang the device. 
 * EHCI Improvements have been made and now more usb devices are supported. 
 * Now you don't need the fat partition to be primary or active, patch in libfat and now libfat searches in all partitions to find a fat partition. 
 * If test.dol [http://mplayer-ce.googlecode.com/files/USB%20Test.rar here] says usb device is 100% compatible and a device is not working in the last MPlayer revision. Then there isn't a fat partition on the device, as a lot of people use ntfs instead. 
 * Restore Points fixed, in previous release when you quit restore point was not saved, now quit or power off saves restore point and can resume properly. Delete your'e previous restore point incase it is corrupted, and check SD isn't locked.
 * Improved smb connections, will always reconnect. (so you can remove shares from pc, and re-enable them, MPlayer will reconnect, so it's a easier way to test smb if you have problems setting it up).  
 * Improved stream initilization. 
 * Fixed green lines at the top of screen whilst loading MPlayerCE. 
 * Video files (which may be badly encoded) that may have unexpectedly froze at some point during playback in previous releases may playback without a possible glitch (such as that freeze/hang). 
 * Change in MPlayer but it's only for testing usb2, now you can load a external driver from sd. If you copy the driver to sd that driver will be used instead of the internal driver, more details (drivers) will be added to google code at a later date, thanx to hermes's patch. 
 * Finnally found/fixed the problem with network and usb2 conflicts, because the driver was using a bad device the name /dev/usb2 is good, but /dev/usb/ehc is bad, because it is used by the network driver [http://wiibrew.org/wiki//dev/usb/ehc 1] [http://wiibrew.org/wiki//dev/usb/oh0 2] In previous releases there was a possible conflict. 
 * Autoload implemented, so if the next file has a very similar name it will autoload it. Using a levenshtein distance of 2. So if you need to change only 1 or 2 letter/numbers  then it is similar. Examples: film.part1.avi > film.part2.avi only 1 change is needed to get the same name. Also house.s01e09.avi > house.s01e10.avi works, (2 changes). 
 * Removed the need to load fonts twice when you load a video file as the fonts have to be loaded to adjust to the film size, 2 fonts are always loaded. 1 for menu and 1 for subs.  Now font for subs are loaded only if it's needed, and the font face is cached, so fonts  are loaded faster, making the video file load quicker. 
 * Improved error reading streams/files (example if you remove share from your pc then MPlayer stops film when cache has finished, now while MPlayer has cache it will try to  read again, so if you enable share again then MPlayer will continue playing without any problems, only stops video file if can't read, or cache is empty. Now MPlayer is more robust on errors). If you unplug & plug usb MPlayer will stop film because usb is off and you need to remount. But if you get an error reading from usb or sd etc MPlayer will try to read again. (For example when a hd usb's motor stops due to inactivity on pause then when you press start again MPlayer will use cache and can recieve an error because motor is not ready). 
 * Many other small fixes and code cleanup.


== 0.7 ==

 * Files now first analyse, followed by cache, as cache was emptied on analysing previously so now you'll see cache filling later.
 * Improved audio/video internet cache, detects if it is a internet stream, if it's a radio stream then initial cache fill is small.
 * Optimizing memory access suggestion from Shagkur, cache thread is now more stable.
 * A8 patch added for DVD playback in cIOS202 to avoid problems with old ModChips.
 * Improved libfat and fix for special characters.
 * Using latest Libfat to prevent possible corruption on sd.
 * Improved USB hotplug and dvd detection, echi module modified for more compatability with usb devices.
 * Can now mount any fat partition, shouldn't matter if partition is set as primary or activated.
 * Now has real fat32 limit therfore can now play larger files.
 * Video files that hadn't worked previously may work now.
 * New buffering system implemented for when buffering is low, if cache becomes low, it will pause and re-buffer to fill cache-min value, to prevent possible hangs with bad connections. You can see the cache by pressing 1 twice on the wiimote, when cache drops to 3% then it will pause.
 * Shoutcast TV is complete with caching, thanx to Extrems, Review menu.conf.
 * If IOS202 is installed via the Installer then DVDx is not required for DVD Access.

== New cIOS Installer ==

 * MPlayerCE will now detect the presence of IOS202 to decide to use DVDx or not, so people that install the cIOS202 don't need to install DVDx to use the DVD functions. Default DVDx install can be used if you install IOS202 now. The new installer is for Homebrew USB2 only, this will install IOS202 using base IOS60 automatically as IOS60 has improvements in wifi. Now you can select the IOS to use to do the installation, so you can select a IOS with the fake sign bug. (The reason for DVDx not having to be installed if IOS202 is installed on the wii, is that there is a patch in IOS202 that doesn't require DVDx, and can access DVD without it). The cIOS is needed for MPlayerCE to use the USB2 driver. For more details read the README that is part of the package.

== 0.62 ==

 * USB LAN Adaptor support fixed (again).  Thanks to CountZ3ro for testing. Please note that you will need to install the USB 2.0 cIOS.
 * cIOS improved to stop conflicts with other homebrew. Please note that now only port0 has usb2 support. All other USB devices (including the USB LAN adaptor) must go in port1.  See here for details: `http://mplayer-ce.googlecode.com/files/usb.jpg`
 * Horizontal stretch parameter added (see mplayer.conf)
 * YouTube options added to menu.conf (thanks to Extrems)
 * Many small bug fixes

== 0.61 ==

 * New screen size variables actually work now.
 * Better usb device detection
 * Using free Liberation font instead of Arial
 * Subtitle wraparound bug fixed
 * Released Spanish Edition

== 0.6 ==

 * No more maximum cache limit
 * Introduced new variables into mplayer.conf to adjust screen size and position, please see mplayer.conf for details (component-fix is now deprecated)
 * idx/sub subtitle support (please note that these can take up to 30 seconds to load so please be patient)
 * Multiple folder locations added, it is now possible to have the files in
   * sd:/apps/mplayer_ce
   * sd:/mplayer
   * usb:/apps/mplayer_ce
   * usb:/mplayer
 * Added resume points - video will resume at last stopped point. To clear, delete resume_points file in your mplayer_ce folder. To seek to the beginning of the video hold 2 and press the minus button.
 * Added support for Hermes' cIOS.  This has greater USB compatibility and enables USB LAN connector support.  Please see wiki page for details
 * Added Fribidi library support for right-to-left languages
 * Made cache fill visible on screen
 * Many small bug fixes
 * Updated to latest MPlayer svn

== v0.5 ==

 * SMB now much more robust - thanks to DennisLKJ for smb.c fix
 * libfat cache improved for speed and stability
 * USB ethernet now works with USB 1.1; USB 2.0 fix requires an updated cIOS
 * Added ability to manipulate picture using the nunchuck
 * Updated to latest MPlayer revision
 * Now using subfont.ttf instead of font folder - use mplayer.conf to change font size
 * Merged widescreen and 4:3 pack - now MPlayer will use the appropriate loop.avi automatically
 * Improved Modchip compatibility for DVD

== v0.4 ==

 * USB 2.0 support (see docs for info)
 * TTF font support (see docs for info)
 * Fixed bug in radio streaming. 
 * DVD-Video bugs fixed (DVDs should play much more smoothly now)
 * Fixes in Libdi to detect chipped Wii
 * Codec fixes
 * Updated to latest MPlayer revision
 * Many small fixes

== v0.3a ==

 * Fixed a little bug in keepalive issue that hangs the wii

== v0.3 ==

 * Fixed code to play videos with incompatible size; we now support many video formats and unorthodox resolutions
 * Fixed keepalive issue in samba (thanks to Ludovic Orban)
 * New loop.avi and widescreen version (thanks to Blue_K)

== v0.21e ==
     
 * Fixed apostrophies in filenames
 * Improved DVD and USB mounting devices
 * Fixed radio
 * Improved samba reconnection
 * Debugging help for SMB Shares at bootup, debug_network=yes (Review mplayer.conf)

== v0.21d ==

 * Updated menu.conf to allow selecting playlist
 * Fix rodries' loop patch

== V0.21c ==

 * Updated menu.conf to allow selecting subtitles

== V0.21b ==

 * New mplayer.conf option: component_fix=yes to fix side bars on some problematic TVs (Now fixed) Review your configs.
 * Stop Looping Video/Audio file.
 * Fixed hang when you access dvdnav

== V0.21 ==

 * Reduced font size
 * New Readme
 * New mplayer.conf option: component_fix=yes to fix side bars on some problematic TVs
 
== V0.2 ==

 * SD/USB Mount bugs fixed
 * DVD Mount/Stop/Motor/Pause problems fixed, now mounts, only when you select DVD
 * Network Initialising on startup changed, now connects "hidden" in background.
 * Added 5 SMB Shares, review smb.conf
 * Boot-up speed increased
 * Added files filter to only show audio/video files
 * Same directory kept open when you open/close the menu
 * Menu closes on file load

== V0.1 ==

 * SMB fixes
 * DVD cache bug fixed
 * Small USB fixes
 * Modified Libogc & Libfat
 * 2.35:1 videos now scale correctly

== V0.1 Christmas Edition ==

 * Initial project